Adapting Bell tutorial to Q# standalone (#905)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/quickstart.md

2. Click **Standalone console application**.
3. Navigate to the location to save the project and click **Create Project**.
4. When the project is successfully created, click **Open new project...** in the
   lower right.

In this case we called the project `Bell`. This generates two files:
`Bell.csproj`, the project file and `Program.qs`, a template of a Q# application
that we will use to write our application. The content of `Program.qs` should
be:

```qsharp
namespace Bell {

    open Microsoft.Quantum.Canon;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;
    

    @EntryPoint()
    operation HelloQ() : Unit {
        Message("Hello quantum world!");
    }
}
```

## Write the Q\# application
 
Our goal is to prepare two qubits in a specific quantum state, demonstrating how
to operate on qubits with Q# to change their state and demonstrate the effects
of superposition and entanglement. We will build this up piece by piece to
introduce qubit states, operations, and measurement.

### Initialize qubit using measurement

In the first code below, we show you how to work with qubits in
Q#.  We’ll introduce two operations, `M` and `X` that transform the state of a

> qubit. In this code snippet, an operation `Set` is defined that takes as a parameter a

Author: Maybe we should change the name of the operation to something more specific? I think that could help to avoid at least the second confusion.

> qubit. In this code snippet, an operation `Set` is defined that takes as a parameter a

Reviewer: I totally support renaming it. Chris' point was echoed by Mariia in #917, and I think leaning toward highly specific (and not-in-the-libraries-for-something-else) callable names would help a lot. Perhaps `SetQubitState` in this case?

If you need a variable whose value can change, such as `numOnes` in the example,
you can declare the variable with the `mutable` keyword. A mutable variable's
value may be changed using a `set` statement.

In both cases, the type of a variable is inferred by the compiler. Q# doesn't
require any type annotations for variables.

#### About `using` statements in Q\#

The `using` statement is also special to Q#. It is used to allocate qubits for
use in a block of code. In Q#, all qubits are dynamically allocated and
released, rather than being fixed resources that are there for the entire
lifetime of a complex algorithm. A `using` statement allocates a set of qubits
at the start, and releases those qubits at the end of the block.

## Execute the code from the command line

In order to run the code we need to specify the compiler *which* callable to run
when we provide the `dotnet run` command. This is done with a simple change in
the Q# file by adding a line with `@EntryPoint()` directly preceding the
callable: the `TestBellState` operation in this case. The full code should be:

```
namespace Bell {
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Canon;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;

>     operation Set(desired : Result, q1 : Qubit) : Unit {
>         if (desired != M(q1)) {
>             X(q1);
>         }
>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    operation Set(desired : Result, target : Qubit) : Unit {
        if (desired != M(target)) {
            X(target);
        }
    }
```

    @EntryPoint()
    operation TestBellState(count : Int, initial : Result) : (Int, Int) {

        mutable numOnes = 0;
        using (qubit = Qubit()) {

            for (test in 1..count) {
                Set(initial, qubit);
                let res = M(qubit);

                // Count the number of ones we saw:

>                 if (res == One) {

Reviewer 2: This is a comparison of a `Result` value, which may not be supported in some scenarios. May be good to check with @KittyYeungQ on how to resolve that.

immutable variable. Operation arguments are always immutable.

If you need a variable whose value can change, such as `numOnes` in the example,
you can declare the variable with the `mutable` keyword. A mutable variable's
value may be changed using a `set` statement.

In both cases, the type of a variable is inferred by the compiler. Q# doesn't
require any type annotations for variables.

#### About `using` statements in Q\#

The `using` statement is also special to Q#. It is used to allocate qubits for
use in a block of code. In Q#, all qubits are dynamically allocated and
released, rather than being fixed resources that are there for the entire
lifetime of a complex algorithm. A `using` statement allocates a set of qubits
at the start, and releases those qubits at the end of the block.

## Execute the code from the command line

In order to run the code we need to specify the compiler *which* callable to run
when we provide the `dotnet run` command. This is done with a simple change in
the Q# file by adding a line with `@EntryPoint()` directly preceding the
callable: the `TestBellState` operation in this case. The full code should be:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```qsharp
```

Codeblock wasn't color highlighting

command line. Let's choose for example `count = 1000` and `initial = One`. Enter
the following command:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --count 1000 --initial One
```

And you should observe the following output:

```dotnetcli
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(0, 1000)
```

If you try with `initial = Zero` you should observe:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --count 1000 --initial Zero
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(1000, 0)
```

## Prepare superposition

**Overview** Now let’s look at how Q# expresses ways to put qubits in
superposition.  Recall that the state of a qubit can be in a superposition of 0
and 1.  We’ll use the `Hadamard` operation to accomplish this. If the qubit is
in either of the classical states (where a measurement returns `Zero` always or
`One` always), then the `Hadamard` or `H` operation will put the qubit in a
state where a measurement of the qubit will return `Zero` 50% of the time and
return `One` 50% of the time.  Conceputually, the qubit can be thought of as
halfway between the `Zero` and `One`.  Now, when we simulate the `TestBellState`
operation, we will see the results will return roughly an equal number of `Zero`
and `One` after measurement.  

> First we'll just try to flip the qubit (if the qubit is in `Zero` state will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `X` flips qubit state

First we'll just try to flip the qubit (if the qubit is in `Zero` state will
```

Highlight that this is an aside (pre-superposition) demonstration

flip to `One` and vice versa). This is accomplished by performing an `X`
operation before we measure it in `TestBellState`:

```qsharp
X(qubit);
let res = M(qubit);
```

Now the results are reversed:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --count 1000 --initial One
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(1000, 0)

dotnet run --count 1000 --initial Zero
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(0, 1000)

> ```

Reviewer: Same green issue as above. I agree that it is so much easier to have them in the same code block, though. Maybe there's a way to turn off the color highlighting for the output lines?

> However, everything we've seen so far is classical. Let's get a quantum result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, everything we've seen so far has been analogous to classical operations on classical bits. Let's get a quantum result.
```

I'm hesitant about the overuse of "classical" when referring to the subset of quantum that's analogous to quantum. In a lot of the prose it's been fine, like with the comp. basis states as the intro paragraph defined them as being called *classical states*. But I think saying this "is classical" runs a notable risk of confusing newcomers.

> All we need to do is replace the `X` operation in the previous run with an `H`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `H` prepares superposition

All we need to do is replace the `X` operation in the previous run with an `H`
```

After aside, now back into it

Now the results get more interesting:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --count 1000 --initial One
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(496, 504)

dotnet run --count 1000 --initial Zero
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(506, 494)
```

Every time we measure, we ask for a classical value, but the qubit is halfway
between 0 and 1, so we get (statistically) 0 half the time and 1 half the time.

> This is known as **superposition** and gives us our first real view into a
> quantum state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is known as **superposition** and gives us our first real look at the uniqueness of quantum states.
```
This specific rewording is just an idea, but I think the clarification should be there.
Similar to above regarding the risk of referring to the prior stuff as *being* classical, we're barreling toward confusion if we imply that the computational basis states are *not* quantum states.

## Prepare entanglement

> **Overview:**  Now let’s look at how Q# expresses ways to entangle qubits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let’s look at how Q# expresses ways to entangle qubits.
```

First, we set the first qubit to the initial state and then use the `H`
operation to put it into superposition.  Then, before we measure the first
qubit, we use a new operation (`CNOT`), which stands for Controlled-Not.  The
result of executing this operation on two qubits is to flip the second qubit if
the first qubit is `One`.  Now, the two qubits are entangled.  Our statistics
for the first qubit haven't changed (50-50 chance of a `Zero` or a `One` after
measurement), but now when we measure the second qubit, it is __always__ the
same as what we measured for the first qubit. Our `CNOT` has entangled the two
qubits, so that whatever happens to one of them, happens to the other. If you
reversed the measurements (did the second qubit before the first), the same
thing would happen. The first measurement would be random and the second would
be in lock step with whatever was discovered for the first.

> The first thing we'll need to do is allocate 2 qubits instead of one in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing we'll need to do is allocate two qubits instead of one in
```

Now the results get more interesting:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --count 1000 --initial One
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(496, 504)

dotnet run --count 1000 --initial Zero
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s):
(506, 494)
```

Every time we measure, we ask for a classical value, but the qubit is halfway
between 0 and 1, so we get (statistically) 0 half the time and 1 half the time.
This is known as **superposition** and gives us our first real view into a
quantum state.

## Prepare entanglement

**Overview:**  Now let’s look at how Q# expresses ways to entangle qubits.
First, we set the first qubit to the initial state and then use the `H`
operation to put it into superposition.  Then, before we measure the first

> qubit, we use a new operation (`CNOT`), which stands for Controlled-Not.  The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
qubit, we use a new operation (`CNOT`), which stands for Controlled-NOT.  The
```

            Set(Zero, q1);
        }

>         // Return number of times we saw a |0> and number of times we saw a |1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Return times we saw |0>, times we saw |1>, and times measurements agreed
```

>         Message("Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s, # of times agreed)")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Message("Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s, # of agreements)");
```

Rephrasing just a thought for brevity, but the missing semicolon is a must-add

        return (count-numOnes, numOnes, agree);
    }
```

The new return value (`agree`) keeps track of every time the measurement from
the first qubit matches the measurement of the second qubit.

Running the code we obtain:

```dotnetcli
dotnet run --count 1000 --initial One

> (505, 495, 1000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s, # of agreements)
(505, 495, 1000)
```
Forgot to update the return to include the `Message` printing. If don't take re-phrasing suggestion above this would still have to be added, but simply using `Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s, # of times agreed)`

Reviewer: Same green issue as above will appear when adding this output too though.

dotnet run --count 1000 --initial Zero

> (507, 493, 1000)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test results (# of 0s, # of 1s, # of agreements)
(507, 493, 1000)
```
